If you are an SA citizen, you have an opportunity to visit any National Park for free during this year’s 16th annual SA National Parks Week from 22 – 26 November 2021.  All South Africans who enter over the age of 18 years must produce an SA ID or SA driver’s license to enter the Parks. The Bontebok, Tankwa Karoo, and West Coast National Parks in the Cape Region will be extending SA National Parks Week until Sunday, 28 November 2021. The Agulhas and Table Mountain National Parks will host SA National Parks Week until Friday, 26 November 2021. What to do in Parks in the Cape Region during SA National Parks Week! SANParks – Agulhas National Park – Come and explore the Southern Most Tip of Africa boasting magnificent views, and take a walk along the shore to view a graveyard of shipwrecks along the Agulhas coastline. Bontebok National Park – SANParks – One of the smallest parks offers you sightings of countless Bontebok roaming around, canoeing along the Breede River Dam, and endless hiking trails to explore and embrace what nature has to offer. SANParks – Tankwa Karoo National Park – Experience the quietness and most scenic 4×4 routes this park has to offer. SANParks – Table Mountain National Park – Enjoy a braai at one of our many braai spots such as Tokai Forest, Newlands, and Oudekraal, and indulge in the essence of the Cape of Goodhope and the many activities it has to offer. SANParks – West Coast National Park – Just inland from the secluded harbor of Saldana Bay, and only 2 hour’s drive from Cape Town’s City Centre, one finds the azure waters of the Langebaan Lagoon, the focal point of West Coast National Park. SANParks – Garden Route National Park – Along the South Coast of South Africa lies one of the most beautiful stretches of coastline in the world, home to the Garden Route National Park. SANParks  – Karoo National Park – a Park offering a multitude of activities enticing guests to want to stay longer. A mountain bike trail, guided and unguided walks, a selection of 4×4 trails, guided game drives, breathtaking landscapes and an array of plant and animal life.