West Coast Shores Guesthouse owner/managers, Ben and Roz Havenga, made their permanent move to the West Coast from KZN after many coast-to-coast trips over the last four decades. Having designed and built their dream beach home on Moerie-se-Baai (the sixth of the seven Jacobsbaai bays), they then fully renovated an opposite property to their same high standards and from August 2020 began to share the Moerie-se-Baai magic from their stunning West Coast Shores Guesthouse – albeit during a very tough time in the hospitality industry. Luxury Comfort All suites and facilities at the guesthouse have been uniquely furnished and finished in their own style, which they term “Luxury Comfort”. A shared delight in building and design from their very different backgrounds has resulted in high end and eclectic finishes and interiors that are also liveable and functional, while being harmonious to the eye and the soul. Redesign of the original house provided a variety of unique and spacious suites at the guesthouse – all offering queen sized beds with percale linens for an excellent night’s sleep. One suite has the option of being converted to a “family” suite by including a separate small bedroom with two single beds. The guesthouse offers free uncapped Wi-Fi and some suites include DSTV, with others specifically designed to be TV-free. Explore the West Coast Foodie Route Being situated in the middle of the “Foodie Route”, the area offers a plethora of culinary experiences – from West Coast fish-n-chips-on-the-quayside to fine dining and everything in between – all within less than 30 minutes’ drive. Most guests find exploring these places – often on recommendations from their hosts, who can assist with planning day trips and “must-see’s” according to personal interests – is a big part of their stay. Jacobsbaai and its nearby towns are famous for restaurants, “padstals”, markets, cafés, wine, gin, beer, cheese, olives, preserves, salt, toffee, honey, ice-cream, and many other foodie experiences. With all these mouth-watering options available, it’s no surprise that most guests enjoy all their meals off-site. However, West Coast Shores does offer a light breakfast on order.  In addition, the two first floor suites at West Coast Shores Guesthouse have their own kitchenettes with dining areas. All other suites have tea/coffee stations with bar fridges. The guesthouse braai room – fully equipped – is available for guests to book.  Things to do — slow and not so slow Guests can use the guesthouse double kayak in the bay, go walking or cycling on many trails in the area, go fishing, swimming, or even surfing. Just outside the village, guests will find the newly established bio-reserve and the renowned fairy village. Bird watching, bunny and tortoise spotting and other wildlife sightings present treasured moments. A bit further afield there is windsurfing in Langebaan, and no visit to the area is complete without a visit to the impressive Fossil Park. There are several game parks in the area, and the various working harbours, marinas, and the Berg River always provide further activities and things to keep one occupied. Set aside time in the late afternoons to gaze upon the amazing skyscapes and sunsets in awe.  Need a Reason to Stay at West Coast Shores? Guests find West Coast Shores Guesthouse provides answers for many of their needs. The guesthouse is primarily a peaceful breakaway spot for couples, friends, and small family units seeking short beach or touring holidays – from two to seven nights. In addition, the hosts will always try to accommodate special requests – from organising surprise proposals at sunset, family gatherings, ladies’ weekends, small group corporate conferencing, team building, solo retreats, honeymoon packages, date nights, or even product & personnel training breakaways. Business travellers enjoy the easy access to the industrial and business zones of Saldanha and Vredenberg, the free Wi-Fi and – as West Coast Shores is a VAT registered entity – the tariff is even more competitive. Short value-adding activities to complement group bookings can be arranged such as wine or cheese tasting, or tailor-made sessions in business skills, self-development, and entrepreneurship.  Solo vacationers who are looking for solitude or time-out in a safe and relaxing space, find the guesthouse and its environs is a perfect place. Jacobsbaai is not as “discovered” or busy with day-trippers as most coastal towns. Where is West Coast Shores? Just ninety minutes up the R27 from Cape Town International Airport, Jacobsbaai is a small residential coastal village between Vredenberg and Saldanha. Moerie-se-Baai in Jacobsbaai is a place of friendship. People gather spontaneously to chat while walking, children play together in the quiet cul-de-sac and on the beach. This is where people arrive as strangers and leave as friends.  West Coast Shores Guesthouse now invites you to “experience the magic” and become captivated with the beauty and the peace. Your hosts, Ben and Roz, look forward to discussing your requirements and providing you with a custom quote – the first stage of your journey. For more Information contact 065 884 5152 or visit www.westcoastshores.co.za