Pikasso Cabinets started off in November 2014 as a traditional kitchen cupboard manufacturer in Stellenbosch. At the beginning of 2015 we were fortunate to land a contract to refurbish an existing student accommodation establishment of 400 flats. “We realise early in the contract that we need to position ourselves to do mass production, as that is the key to sustainable profitability. However, there always has been a perception in the market that all mass production items are of lower quality. To change that perception was one of our biggest challenges. During 2017 we moved to Brackenfell to a bigger and better premises. We obtained better equipment to ensure that the speed at which we manufacture do not affect the quality of our products. At the beginning of 2019 we saw an opportunity to manufacture flat pack melamine furniture for the DIY market, as the majority of South Africa’s DIY furniture offerings are imported and mostly from countries with questionable quality records. We started off with only three products, a desk, bookshelf and bedside table. Since then we expand our offerings to more colours and some more furniture types to choose from. Recently we also added kitchen units for the hardcore DIYers! Being a family-owned business run by father and son duo, we love detail and really put a lot of effort and time into the designing of our furniture. Our motto is quite simple, “If it is not good enough for us, it is definitely not good enough for our customers.” At the beginning of 2020 we started to sell our products on Takealot and also export to our neighbour countries. Pikasso is fortunate to have a very well-trained, focused and motivated Team of employees with all the necessary skills to ensure that our products are manufactured and packed to the prescribed quality. The collective knowledge of our Team in the cupboard manufacturing industry exceeds 80 years. It is important to us to listen to what our customers had to say in their feedback on how they experienced our products. We love constructive criticism as it helps us on our path to excellence. We constantly review, develop and redevelop our products to keep up with the new trends on the market. We strive to be the best cost provider in the industry. We believe our furniture range on offer is modern, easy to assemble, reasonable priced and of good quality. Pikasso has a no-nonsense return policy. If you are not entirely happy with your product, within 30 days after you bought it, you can return it for credit, another product of same value or we will right out refund you. As they say, the proof is in the pudding!” For more information contact 021 981 1035, or visit www.pikasso.co.za and see what we have on offer.