In the heart of Cape Town lies a hidden gem, where history, geology, age-old crafts and modern trends combine amid the dazzle of diamonds and other precious gems… In 1752 a resplendent home was built for one of Cape Town’s wealthy merchants. This home was built on Erf No. 6 (granted by Governor Ryk Tulbagh), on the corner of what was to become Hout and Loop Streets, in the Cape Town CBD. This Early Cape-style home served as both residence to some of the wealthiest merchants of Cape Town, and as the most important distribution centre for Cape wines in the 1800’s, after Groot Constantia.  Today, after a lengthy restoration in the late 1980’s and early 1990’s by internationally renowned architect team, Gabriël (Gawie) & Gwen Fagan, this property is home to one of Cape Town’s, and South Africa’s, most exclusive family owned jewellers – Prins & Prins Diamonds. Since 1982, under the ownership and guidance of Dr Petré Prins (former senior lecturer at Stellenbosch University in Mineralogy and Geology, with a PhD in Geochemistry) this company has grown into a leading manufacturing jeweller, where private consultations in historic rooms, set the scene for an unparalleled experience, when searching for diamond or gemstone jewellery. Original artwork (circa 1792) adorn the walls of this magnificent property, where clients are seated in private offices to browse an extensive collection of some of the best of South Africa’s diamonds (all internationally and independently certified), and gemstones from around the world. In private consultations with graduate gemologists, expert designers assist in designing everything from unique engagement rings to the ultimate jewellery heirlooms. Aurum Art, the goldsmith atelier of Prins & Prins, continues a centuries old tradition of forging metals by hand, creating the most spectacular bespoke jewellery for their clients.
It is one of the few remaining workshops that has resisted the lure of mass production and cheap imports from the east, producing exquisite pieces at factory prices. Over the years, Prins & Prins has received awards from not only De Beers for “Excellence in Jewellery Design”, but also received top honors amongst the top 5 in the Plat Africa Jewellery Design and Manufacture awards several times, a further testament to what can be expected from one of South Africa’s oldest family jewellers. Prins & Prins’ diamonds and gemstones are all certified and conflict free, providing peace of mind to the purchaser. Their Museum of Gems and Jewellery offers a most insightful look into South Africa’s wealth of minerals, from its geological origins, through to mining and production, and its impact on South Africa’s political history since the discovery of the first diamond in South Africa in 1867. “Examples and exhibits of jewellery worn since 15 000 BC through to modern times, gives fascinating insights into how jewellery styles changed and evolved over centuries. Going back even further in time, the oldest piece of jewellery in the world dating back to 75 000 BC, sits next to a fascinating exhibit of “cosmic jewels”, where the origin of these minerals and metals making up a collection that is truly from outer space!”, says Stéfan Doveton-Moore, Sales & Marketing Manager at Prins & Prins. In every industry there is one company that sets the standard. A visit to Prins & Prins, one of Cape Town’s best kept secrets, will be your new benchmark.  Their diamonds are not just the hardest natural objects on earth, but sparkling wonders to warm the hearts of all women (and a few men). Created and collected by experts with a Passion for Perfection, a Prins & Prins diamond is a true gem to be worn as a symbol of love and appreciation, and to serve as a store of value, forever. Tours of the Prins & Prins workshop, and museum, are conducted free of charge and can be scheduled at your convenience. For bookings or to schedule a consultation, call +27 (0)21 422 1090 or email consultants@prinsandprins.com. Web: www.prinsandprins.com