It is a year since the Kleine Zalze Restaurant opened in October 2020. The restaurant opened in the space previously home to Terroir restaurant. Over nearly 16 years of operation Terroir proved hugely successful, but the new tourism landscape and safety concerns and regulations prompted Kleine Zalze to rethink – and reboot – the farm’s food and wine offering. Respected chef Nic van Wyk was brought in to lead and assist the team as culinary consultant and Nic certainly settled in and made the menu his own. The food I like to cook is quite timeless,” says Van Wyk. “My approach has always been about being honest, authentic and generous in my cooking. That is what we offer at the Kleine Zalze Restaurant. Not necessarily fine dining but certainly top-quality delicious food.” The restaurant interior was also transformed and now boasts a lighter and more modern look to better fit with the brand and the new lighter approach to the food. The menu at the Kleine Zalze Restaurant changes regularly to ensure fresh seasonal produce is used and to keep the menu interesting for the loyal supporters of the restaurant.
The menu always offers a compact selection of plats du jour – a collection of delicious dishes inspired by classic cuisine. This changes with the season but the focus remains on timeless dishes with flavours that never go out of fashion. Alongside the plats du jour, the menu offers a selection of tapas plates, perfectly pitched for a lighter meal at the restaurant, a starter before your main course or to complement a wine tasting. “These tapas plates are a chance for the chefs to get a little more creative, a bit more playful in contrast to the straightforward plats du jour,” adds van Wyk. The tapas menu changes almost weekly with innovative new dishes keeping the selection fresh and interesting. Delectable deserts and excellent coffee complete the menu. The restaurant offers regular lunch specials so it is definitely worth following Kleine Zalze on social media to get the regular updates. The restaurant recently introduced a Sunday lunch menu with a selection of three starters, three main courses and three deserts. The Sunday menu is very well priced at R245 for two courses or R295 for three courses.
Booking is advised. E-mail restaurant@kleinezalze.co.za to book your table or make your reservation on Dineplan.