With so many leisure activities now closed because of the Covid-19 lockdown and its economic impact on the recreational sector, many people are looking to watersports as a fun, healthy diversion from the cares of daily life. Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate offers enticing opportunities for anyone seeking a new home in a beautiful private estate, with access to perhaps the widest range of watersports anywhere in South Africa. Situated on 210 hectares of pristine fynbos, and sheltered between two hills, the estate is on the edge of the Bot River lagoon, which is protected by a sandbar that separates it from the Atlantic Ocean, to keep the water warm and safe from sharks. For the design of Benguela Cove, the developer won permission to erect deep-water jetties and a boardwalk to enable recreational boating – both power and sail – to be available to the estate’s residents. The location’s pristine lagoon frontage, which is the second biggest in South Africa, has exclusive boat access where residents can enjoy a range of waterborne activities. This includes swimming, boating, skiing, fishing, kitesurfing and many others. For safety and environmental reasons, no jet skis are allowed. Onsite facilities include boat storage, a tractor for residents’ use and a slipway for fast and easy launches – ideal when you are fitting in some paddle boarding perhaps between Zoom business calls at home, just a short walk from the quay. The lifestyle fits in perfectly with homeworking, with the opportunity and convenience to master your preferred watersport.
There is also a private clubhouse by the jetties, with a fitted kitchen and reception area, close to a peaceful stretch of beach, which residents can book to enjoy a braai after a day spent in or on the water – or playing a few sets on the adjoining tennis courts.  Homeowners can also visit the separate winery precinct at Benguela Cove, which features a restaurant and wine tasting lounge and where they can book a pontoon wine tour on the lagoon – government lockdown restrictions permitting. The pontoon tour aboard the Lady Bonnie offers an extra dimension to the enjoyment of this unique stretch of water. It is open to anyone to book, available Wednesday to Sunday, and complimentary for two people when they buy a case of wine from the estate’s vineyard. The estate itself features some 70 ha of vineyards, 10 ha of olive groves and lavender fields as well as another 80 ha of ecologically sound private wildlife reserve. Many homeowners are drawn to this special area by the diverse birdlife. Game species that also share the estate include Grey Rhebok, Duiker, Grysbok, Cape Clawless Otter, Aardvark, and a herd of wild, untamed horses that roam freely through the Renosterveld Nature Reserve.
With coastal land such a finite resource, beachfront property is always a valuable asset. With just the right amount of privacy and seclusion, together with acres of vineyards, a recreational lagoon and an extraordinary range of wildlife, water sports fans and other lovers of the great outdoors looking for a second home or family homestead will feel an intense attraction to this location. Cape Town is a leisurely hour’s drive, and its international airport is close by too, for when travel restrictions are lifted. Homeowners are well looked after with 24-hour security, residents’ meetings, maintenance and all the facilities you would expect from a luxury estate. There are 124 erven on this low-density, secure development. Over half of these are sold and opportunities exist for buyers to develop, design and build their dream home or to buy a fully completed luxury home direct from the developer, Penny Streeter OBE:
“Imagine looking out over the azure lagoon from the veranda of your newly purchased house while sipping a glass of the estate’s finest vino. With the subtle cry of a fish eagle in the distance, it’ll feel like you’re a million miles from anywhere.” For more information visit www.benguelacove.com