No need to neglect your outdoor spaces this winter; add instant cosiness and elegance to any outdoor space with Plantation Shutters. Plantation Shutters offers the option of creating intimate and well-insulated outdoor spaces, which can be enjoyed in any winter condition, come rain, wind or shine. Here are ten reasons why Plantation Shutters are the perfect winter solution for outdoor spaces, such as terraces, patios and balconies. – Just because the winter chill has set in shouldn’t mean your outdoor spaces are off limits. With us all spending more time at home these days, it is important to utilise all the spaces your home has to offer. Shutters allow you to comfortably enjoy outside spaces any time of year. – Forget about permanent fixed barriers in your outside spaces, shutters offer elegant and adjustable insulation that can be easily adapted to any weather or light conditions. The louvres can be adjusted or completely closed, to create the perfect look and feel for your outdoor spaces. – No need to pack away outdoor furniture or worry about it getting damaged by the elements. Closed shutters offer excellent protection to your outdoor living spaces. – Plantation Shutters utilises aluminium shutters when it comes to outside spaces, and the Plantation Security Shutters are fully lockable, adding instant security and peace of mind when it comes to protecting your belongings. – Keep your beloved pets safe and enclosed in certain areas yet stop unwanted animal visitors from getting in. – Shutters also have the added benefit of adding privacy and intimacy to any outdoor space. Outdoor showers, hot tubs and pools can be enjoyed without the disturbance of onlookers. – The adjustable shutters can create many atmospheres depending on your mood.
At night a romantic cosy setting can be created with the shutters fully closed or a spacious open feel can be achieved with the shutters partially closed during the day. – Besides adding insulation and security, shutters enhance the aesthetic of outdoor living spaces, by adding elegance and style. Created to best compliment the dimensions and décor of the area they come in a range of neutral colours and wood-look options. – You will be supporting local, as Plantation Shutters are 100% locally manufactured. – Plantation Shutters are a great home improvement investment, as they add instant value to any home and come with a 10-year and 12-year guarantee on the aluminum and security shutters, respectively. For more information visit www.plantation.co.za