There is absolutely no need for FOMO – why not join the Cape Town Cycle Tour to celebrate the traditional cycling month of March by entering the official Virtual Cape Town Cycle Tour, presented by Powerade and Wesgro, or the Cape Town Cycle Tour 109-for-109 Charity Challenge. Organisers of the Cape Town Cycle Tour announced, on 4 February, that despite the postponement of the March 2021 event, due to Covid restrictions, organisers would be offering two new initiatives – the Virtual Cape Town Cycle Tour via the online platform FulGaz Virtual Cycling, and the Cape Town Cycle Tour 109-for-109 Charity Challenge.
Both events will focus around the traditional 109km of the Cape Town Cycle Tour and registered riders stand to win thousands of Rands in prizes from Garmin, Tacx, Powerade, Thule and Oakley, while also receiving acknowledgement for their efforts with a virtual medal and virtual certificate of completion and a listing on the event website. To be part of the action use the hashtag #cycletour109 on all your social media posts to stand a chance of winning weekly prizes. The Cape Town Cycle Tour 109-for-109 Charity Challenge To take part simply enter online at www.capetowncycletour.com and ride 109km or more during the month of March anywhere anytime. We will use Strava to verify all qualifying rides completed. Each participant will get a virtual medal on completion of the challenge, while also and perhaps most importantly, helping raise funds for the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust. You can get creative and set up fun ways to complete the distance. Like the most elevation in 109km, anyone? Or the greatest number of 109km rides in the month of March? Or simply set yourself the goal of riding the race distance. The official Virtual Cape Town Cycle Tour The Virtual Cape Town Cycle Tour, will utilize the FulGaz Virtual Cycling platform, and will take place between 8 – 14 March. The race will be divided into three stages to make up the traditional 109km route. Filmed on the actual route from a bicycle it is the ideal way to experience the beauty of the Cape Peninsula from the comfort of your own home!
“While the pandemic continues to affect the lives of so many, we believe that staying healthy, having a goal and challenging yourself safely is more critical than ever,” said Cape Town Cycle Tour director, David Bellairs. “Both our Virtual event and the Charity Challenge offer an opportunity to stay motivated while also raising money for the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust. It’s time to pay it forward!” For more information visit www.capetowncycletour.com