The Nurses of South Africa have a VICTORY SONG to boost morale and infuse courage as they serve tirelessly on the Covid Frontline. The award-winning Ndlovu Youth Choir from rural Limpopo, dedicated a beautiful song – “We Will Rise” – to all the exceptional nurses of our nation. The words: “Be strong, be brave, keep the faith, after the darkness comes the light, together WE WILL RISE!” have certainly struck a beautiful chord motivating one and all. “Music and dance brings joy and builds team spirit” says Sr. Teresa Basson, the Director of The Exceptional Nurse Campaign – TEN Campaign. “We wanted to give our hospital heroes something to take their minds off the stress and strain of the challenges at work.” We partnered with the Ndlovu Youth Choir to launch the #WeWillRise Dance Competition for Hospital Heroes and invited all to enter. Healthcare workers got together after shifts, practiced the dance, took videos and entered from all over South Africa, even as far as Shongwe Hospital near the Zimbabwe/South African border. Joy and hope began to rise as hospital staff started singing and dancing to this vibrant, inspirational song. The Crazy Store, Food Lovers Market, Run/Walk for Life and Bramley Cosmetics joined in the excitement by sponsoring fabulous prizes for the 3 top teams. After careful audition and dance video assessments, our panel of judges chose the following hospitals as the winners: First place: Jubilee District Hospital, Themba Rural, Gauteng.
Second place: Worcester Provincial Hospital, Western Cape.
Third place: New Somerset Hospital, Greenpoint, Cape Town. You may view these wonderful videos on The Exceptional Nurse Facebook page, under videos. On behalf of The Exceptional Nurse Campaign, the Ndlovu Youth Choir and the grateful citizens of South Africa, we want to thank our courageous nurses and healthcare workers for their selfless dedication to the sick and suffering. THANK YOU! YOU ARE OUR HEROES!! At the same time, we want to CONGRATULATE the winners of the #WeWillRise Dance Competition! WELL, WELL DONE EVERYONE!!! After the darkness comes the light…..we will rise South Africa, WE WILL RISE!! Article by Sr. Teresa Basson – Director of The Exceptional Nurse Campaign