Fertility Show Africa (FSA) returns for two days in October with a fully interactive online show that offers participants access to a wide range of world-leading specialists, experts and clinics. FSA – which is back after its hugely successful debut last year – takes place on Saturday, October 9, and Sunday, October 10, allowing attendees from around South Africa, the African continent and the rest of the world to discover everything they need to know during their fertility journey. FSA 2021 will give online attendees the opportunity to consult confidentially face-to-face with a wide range of clinics and experts. It will also run an unparalleled speaker programme from leading fertility and alternative parenting experts in a safe space where visitors can engage, ask questions, find answers and gather information from some of South Africa’s best specialists, embryologists, nurses, psychologists and social workers as well as international experts. Exhibitors range from doctors to clinicians and practitioners to top-class fertility clinics, legal advisors and support groups, surrogacy, adoption and donor agencies, natural fertility solutions and supplements, complementary and alternative therapies as well as nutritional and lifestyle advisors. This year’s show will also include a virtual expo area showcasing a wide range of cutting-edge fertility and journey-to-parenthood products and solutions – enabling visitors to have one-on-one conversations with exhibitors and meeting them live in their booth. Returning is the unparalleled expert speakers’ programme – Expert Talks – live-streamed to the main stage and featuring professionally produced content. Also back is Support Zone, intimate Q&A sessions with fertility specialists and experts, many of whom have struggled with infertility themselves. Visitors can go live on camera to ask questions or remain anonymous and just listen. Included in the access pass is a free 15-minute expert consultation with a fertility specialist or expert as well as the chance to speed network with visitors sharing their journey with others. For more information visit www.fertilityshowafrica.com