Announced as the Best Luxury Wedding & Wine Destination in Western Cape for 2021, Benguela Cove Wine Estate offers the best panoramic views, a range of beautiful indoor and outdoor venues to host your dream wedding combined with unique experiences to ensure that your day stands out from the rest. “Whether your vision is alongside the tranquil lagoon, with expansive mountain views, within a protected courtyard that beckons to be adorned by fairy lights or even on the water, hosted on our luxury pontoon – we are sure you will find your dream setting with us. Benguela Cove hosts the most sophisticated and modern venues in the Walker Bay area, adaptable to your requirements and of course the changing seasons. Whether you are looking to host a traditional, large-scale celebration of 200 guests or opt for the more intimate elopement option, we have a range of venues to choose from. Offering you world-class service, the team at Benguela Cove is dedicated to ensuring a perfect day for the loving couple. There is ample flexibility in the range of wedding styles and formats available. These can include traditional events and a ‘wedding by design’, to your own personal theme or style. The onsite staff help with all the details for civil ceremonies, receptions and parties for all group sizes. Every client has a personal, complimentary venue coordinator. This is to ensure your wedding will be a wonderful day to remember for all the guests and the happy couple; well-organised and stress-free, with all our help and experience available to you in support. Whether you want a small, intimate event or a great party-themed occasion. With the ongoing pandemic, we have found that there is a greater request for our betrothed couples to look at smaller, more intimate wedding settings, celebrating with only their nearest and dearest. We have ensured that we can suit these requirements, with a dedicated elopement package that can be built on based on your exact requirements for your special day. We have taken the limitations and transformed them into something beautiful, that will remain in memory as the best day of your life. Working closely with Executive Chef Annie Badenhorst, we ensure that every bride and groom is catered for, according to their custom requirements. Not only can guests expect to enjoy some of the finest dining experiences in the world when choosing from our delicately prepared set menu options, but we also guarantee flexibility and outstanding quality when it comes to creating your own menu for the day. Everything that happens on our estate, is fuelled by the same passion and creativity that our Chef carries through her restaurant on a daily basis.” There is a range of interesting locations and formats at Benguela Cove: Private Tasting Room: Up to 20 persons, Vinotheque Private Dining: Up to 16 persons, Cellar Door Tasting Room: 80 – 100 persons, The Tea Terrace: Up to 40 persons, State of the art cellar: Up to 60 persons, Barrel Room: Up to 100 persons, Moody Lagoon Restaurant: 150 – 170 persons, Benguela Cove Courtyard: Up to 300 persons. At the Benguela Cove venues, although perfectly laid out for privacy and intimacy on the day, can also be used in conjunction with one another to give you a truly unique estate experience. Guests can enjoy a wine tasting on arrival, trips on the Lady Bonnie pontoon as they wait for the bride and groom to arrive, or even enjoy a round of Adventure Golf to add an element of entertainment to the day. For more information email: events@benguelacove.co.za 
or visit www.benguelacove.co.za