The lifestyle enjoyed on a wildlife estate is now more popular than ever for new homebuyers in the wake of Coronavirus and lockdown. With travel restrictions and concerns about the pandemic confining many people to their local areas, the attractions of a luxury home in unspoilt countryside, with abundant wildlife and beautiful views to wake up to, is a major attraction, says Penny Streeter OBE of Benguela Cove Lagoon Estate. Many people living in towns and cities during the pandemic now want to relocate or find a second home in a place where they and their families can enjoy a healthier lifestyle in a natural setting. Living on an estate like Benguela Cove, residents can wake up to views across the tranquil lagoon to the Kogelberg Nature Reserve and Atlantic sea beyond, with a wide range of outdoor activities to look forward to during the day – hiking and running, boating and waterskiing, bird watching and other sports and pastimes. The estate is home to over 100 species of birds including owls, blue cranes, guinea fowl and flamingos, flourishing within its protected reserves and vast wetlands. Mountain leopards and wild horses also make appearances on the estate. “Imagine relaxing at the end of a day of homeworking with a glass of lovely wine from the estate’s own vineyard. From your balcony, you might spot a buck wandering by at the water’s edge or a Peregrine Falcon soaring across the blue lagoon towards the distant Kogelberg Mountains. “Living on the estate, instead of the daily commute you have nothing more taxing after work finishes than to plan tomorrow’s early morning kayak trip or a cycle ride on the 11km track before you settle down to calls and web meetings for the day,” says Penny Streeter. The estate represents a popular investment choice too for foreign buyers. With Cape Town International Airport just 80 minutes journey by car, residents can conveniently fly to Johannesburg and other national and international city destinations for meetings and conferences. Hermanus is 20 minutes drive time from Benguela Cove, offering the further attractions of its shopping and nightlife, when Coronavirus restrictions are lifted. The town is an international destination for whale watching, with tourists drawn to the coast between July and November as it becomes the breeding grounds of the Southern Right Whale. The Benguela Cove Lagoon Estate estate offers properties with waterfront views and an annual wine allocation from the 70-hectare vineyard. Its vintages are attracting a lot of attention and winning a string of recent awards, including 4.5 stars for seven of its wines and a further 4 stars for seven others by Platter’s, the leading South Africa Wine Guide. Orders from Europe and the USA have grown in 2020 and 2021, even during the decline of sales by the South African wine sector overall. The estate also includes 10 hectares of olive groves, a working winery, swimming pool, tennis court, running and cycle track, clubhouse and jetty, and the Moody Lagoon Restaurant in the adjoining entertainments area. Close by too there is the 18 hole championship golf course and luxury spa at Arabella Country Estate. Benguela Cove is over 60 percent sold, with residences available to buy directly from the developer, with interest-free finance available For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za