Decorex Africa is pleased to announce its dynamic new plans for Decorex Cape Town 2021 and has been agilely re-strategised, with the entire month of June pegged for an unprecedented Design Takeover. Comprising a host of exciting activities geared towards stimulating the industry and bringing South Africa’s Creative Capital to vibrant life! Cape Town is the first city in Africa to be named a UNESCO City of Design and the Mother City can look forward to The Cape Town Design Trail, professional industry talks and networking events, and a variety of innovative online platforms that will contribute to the lifeblood of the city and its design community and benefit its global stature. The Cape Town Design Trail will include product launches, visits to concept stores, staged window displays, private art viewings, meet-and-greet sessions with designers, and exclusive networking functions and trend talks. The new trail gives participants one-on-one access to incredible showrooms and private maker spaces while flying the design banner for the industry and involving the city as a whole. The stimulating event extends over four weekends to help visitors discover exhibitions and installations located at 200 incredible participating sites. In keeping with Decorex Africa’s longstanding and ongoing commitment to bring the design community together, various showrooms will host exclusive networking functions during The Cape Town Design Trail timeframe. These functions are aimed at architects, interior designers, specifiers, hospitality buyers, corporate procurement, landscapers, online retailers, product designers, property developers, building contractors and media.
Decorex Africa Online is a series of online resources, programmes and events from a host of Decorex Africa exhibitors and partners. This online offering is designed to virtually connect the design, décor, hospitality and retail community. The Decorex Digital Design Magazine will act as a detailed guide to the upcoming Design Takeover. It will feature a Route Map, guided tour information and design- and trend-focused content.
Following Decorex Cape Town’s Design Takeover, and set to go live online in August 2021, is an innovative Trade-only Virtual Experience that will provide exhibitors and members of the trade with a unique online opportunity to engage and conduct ‘business as unusual’.