Ex-Gauteng residents and semigrants from other South African provinces are buying more properties in the Western Cape than ever before, says Alexa Horne, managing director of Dogon Group Properties who adds that an increasing number of South Africans are relocating to Cape Town and snapping up properties close to good schools, amenities, and lifestyle offerings. “Semigration to the Cape is by no means a new trend, however it is one that is sharply on the rise due to Covid-19 which has birthed a new era of remote working – making it easier for professionals to live, work and play in their preferred province – no longer having to wait until they retire to live by the sea.” “The allure of the Cape has long been pulling professionals who in the past would commute to Gauteng in the week for work and return to their families in the Western Cape each weekend. The need to keep working away from the family and to commute was a draw-back and a reason that more people were not relocating to the Cape.” Now, remote working, online work login’s, Google Meet, and Zoom have made it so much easier for families to pursue their dream of moving to Cape Town, said Horne. The main reasons for this swell of relocations are people looking for a lifestyle change and wanting quality of life in beautiful surroundings, as well as good schooling for their children and increased safety and security in general. Home Cape Town boasts some of the best schools in the country as well as access to what are undoubtedly some of the most beautiful beaches in the world, as well as mountains, vineyards, open spaces – the list goes on. “We are seeing that many of those relocating are looking for larger homes – houses that are big enough to accommodate extended family – like grandparents – as well as provide space for a home office. Out of our sales in the Western Cape over the past 12 months, Gauteng buyers and people from other provinces within SA make up as a large percentage of our clients. We are seeing more and more buyers looking in the Southern Suburbs and this has given rise to several new developments being launched in this desirable area,” said Paul Upton, head of developments for Dogon. “The western Seaboard area offers those wanting to relocate from Gauteng a full-hearted lifestyle, said Natalie Koch, Dogon Group sales agent for the area. “This widespread area has a large amount of possibilities with regards to housing – with new developments, existing free standing homes and apartments available.” And it is not just sales that are booming thanks to the influx of families relocating to Cape Town. According to Horne, one of the reasons that Cape Town’s rentals market is doing so well is that semigrants often rent initially while they ascertain which area they want to live in and search for the perfect home to buy. Cape Town in particular, is a trend that does not look set to die out any time soon and that it has shaped, and will continue to shape, the real-estate landscape in the province as more developments and offerings are tailored to suite the wants and needs of these new residents.