This is why you have to apply… In the quant suburbs of Cape Town, a buzz has started about an exclusive introduction platform called Intrɐ’D –  a new and exciting way of meeting likeminded people with the same emotional standards and intellect. Finding your partner, friend, or person on a genuine, honest, and transparent platform now proves to take the singles club by storm. With a unique, criteria of premium selection, Intrɐ’D offers its applicants the special opportunity of meeting new, interesting people with the prospect of love lingering in the air.  So how does it work? Avoiding the drama of other introduction platforms, Intrɐ’D offers membership for a select clientele who is serious to invest in their future with that person they are looking for, and do so with flair. Preceding an online application form, applicants are required to meet preliminary requirements. The minimum criteria to apply includes single people 25 years and older, Entrepreneurs, Professional or Executive personas. An elite platform that you want to be part of! We take away the pain of internet dating. We save you precious time. We eliminate the evasive experience you have when you tried online dating sites.  What makes Intrɐ’D unique? Applicants are not only screened to ensure authenticity, a further in person interview is done to ensure all members of Intrɐ’D are quality people that we can introduce to other members. On registration, Intrɐ’D will start with the exciting process of introducing you to other members. Other classy value add services are included in the membership, which allows Intrɐ’D members with even more opportunities to meet “that person”.
With lockdown at its knees, and romance taking flight again, a new way of connecting and meeting people has ensued and promises to offer its members a fresh, new way of interacting safely, honestly and with zest.  Where are we located? Operating in the suburbs of Cape Town, existing members look forward to a range of new, exciting faces from Stellenbosch, Franschhoek, Durbanville, Paarl, Cape Town CBD, Bellville, Plattekloof, and surrounding areas, Worcester and George. Also catering for the Atlantic Seaboard and Southern Suburbs. Intrɐ’D promises a crisp outlook on how to meet your special someone, sticking to the old-fashioned way, but doing so in style.  “It’s not what you have in life, it is who you have in your life” www.intrad.co.za