Celebrate the great outdoors in the Western Cape’s most popular sea-side town, Hermanus, this April. Join HI-TEC as they combine with the Walker Bay Outdoor to host a long weekend of mountain biking, trail running, triathlons, open water swims, cliff jumps and the exhilarating HI-TEC Dash4Cash. The weekend is set to become South Africa’s most eagerly anticipated outdoor festival, with the HI-TEC Walker Bay Xtreme combining 6 events for the serious athletes. Off the trails and out of the ocean, the Walker Bay Festival will provide unique dining experiences, ranging from five-star meals to gourmet street foods. Not to mention showcase the region’s award-winning wines, provide excuses aplenty to sample the burgeoning local craft beer range and celebrate – in a Covid conscious way of course – with a number of South Africa’s most famous sporting icons. There is an activity for everyone at the HI-TEC Walker Bay Outdoor. So be sure to come experience the excitement, for a morning or all weekend, from 23 – 26 April. The action gets underway on Friday evening, 23 April, with the Ledlenser Twilight Run. It is a 7.5-kilometre trot, into the setting sun, from Grotto Beach to the historic Old Harbour. While some of the 200 expected entrants will race to beat the sun, most will take their time; showcasing the twin nature of the HI-TEC Walker Bay Outdoor. Following Friday’s Twilight Run the sporting events continue on Saturday, 24 April with the mountain bike races, trail runs, Sea and Sand Swim Run Jump and the Cliff Path runs. There are various distances in each of the events, barring the Swim Run Jump, and the option to take on the mountain bike event or the trail run as a two-day stage race.
On Sunday, 25 April, the mountain biking and trail running events conclude in the morning; before the signature event of the 2021 HI-TEC Walker Bay Outdoor takes place. The, newly created, HI-TEC Dash4Cash will certainly be among the most exciting races on the 2021 South African sports calendar. Monday, 26 April brings the HI-TEC Walker Bay Outdoor to its conclusion with the triathlon and open water swim events. The Sprint and Junior Distance triathlons provide options for the young and young at heart triathletes in the field, while the open water swims offer 5- and 2.5-kilometre routes. Multisport athletes can choose to take part in any number of events across the entire HI-TEC Walker Bay Outdoor. There is however the HI-TEC Walker Bay Xtreme which combines the festival’s big 6 events. In order to be in the running for the HI-TEC Dash4Cash athletes will need to enter the Twilight Run, the MTB Adventure (Long), the See and Sand Swim Run Jump, the Trail Adventure, the Triathlon and the Open Water Swim (5km). The places after the Trail Adventure, on Sunday morning, will determine who qualifies for the HI-TEC Dash4Cash. While the overall HI-TEC Walker Bay Xtreme Champions will be crowned on Monday after the Open Water Swim. For more information visit www.walkerbayoutdoor.com