The Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust is thus extremely pleased to confirm that the Cape Town Cycle Tour is scheduled to take place on 10 October 2021, subject to all the necessary permissions being received. This has only been possible thanks to the incredible support of the thousands of participants from around the world who turn out each year in support of what the Cycle Tour stands for – the promotion of health and fitness through the sport of cycling while at the same time generating much needed funds for those who are less fortunate. For the past 43 years the Cape Town Cycle Tour, presented by Pick n Pay, has contributed millions of Rand into social upliftment and cycling development through its beneficiaries the Rotary Club of Claremont and the Pedal Power Association. The postponement of the March 2021 Cape Town Cycle Tour has left many worthy charities in dire need of support and many loyal and enthusiastic cyclists have been greatly disappointed. To ensure compliance with national Covid-19 regulations the event will see a revised format and a significantly reduced number of cyclists being permitted to participate. The revised format include that Cyclists will no longer gather on The Grand Parade and be sent off in start batches. Riders will now be allocated a time slot or ‘start window’ during which they must roll across the official start line (at which point their timing chip will activate their actual start time). Cyclists will need to plan their route to the start carefully to ensure that they cross the start line within the “window time” allocated. These start times will be determined in accordance with seeding requirements to ensure safety on the road. To ensure the requisite COVID-19 protocols and regulations as stipulated by Government are met, the number of participants permitted to enter the 2021 event will be limited to that prescribed by national legislation at the time. For the purposes of planning and based on current projections we anticipate that no more than 50% of our normal entry limit will be able to be accommodated. As a result only 18 000 entries will be accepted – entries will close when the entry limit is reached. In the unfortunate event that the 2021 Cycle Tour should either be cancelled or postponed, the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust has developed a comprehensive refund policy. Entry Process: For more information visit www.capetowncycletour.com