The Western Cape is rich in natural beauty and offers a variety of leisurely strolls or invigorating hikes right on our doorstep. As the city is wrapped by mountains all around, there are a number of trails you can tackle this summer with guaranteed views of the spectacular ocean, waterfalls and forests. When planning your outdoor adventure, the correct shoes and socks are a necessity. The team at Falke have ensured you can step into a season of comfort with their Advance Hike Cool socks.   Crafted with Drynamix, Polyamide and Elastane, these Advance Hike Cool socks are designed to go the distance.  Falke put together a list of our favourite trails you can explore this summer with your Falke Advance Hike Cool socks. Lions Head – Arguably one of the most iconic hikes in Cape Town, standing at 669m above sea level is Lions Head.
This is one of the cities most popular hikes simply for its iconic and picturesque summits that will guarantee you the ultimate postcard-perfect pictures. The Pipe Track, Table Mountain – This hike is one of the easier one’s to do on Table Mountain. It’s roughly a 6km walk, however it’s fairly level and not too strenuous. Newlands Forest – Situated on the eastern slopes of Table Mountain, Newlands forest offers a different view of Cape Town with a lush green backdrop and a variety of trails for all fitness levels, including; the Contour Path to Rhodes Memorial, The Forest Station walk and the Fernwood Trail up to Newlands Ravine. Constantia Nek to Kirstenbosch – This is the ultimate family-friendly route. Starting at Constantia Nek, this route winds its way round the eastern slopes of Table Mountain. Kogelberg Biosphere – This world heritage site is renowned for its pristine beauty and diverse fynbos and is an absolute must-see and do this summer! Spanning over 100 000 hectares, this is considered the heart of the Cape Floral Kingdom. There are a number of both day and night trails to choose from with one of the most popular being the Crystal Pools hike.