Earlier in October, Plett Tourism assisted CapeNature with an invitation to feature local hiking enthusiasts in an upcoming marketing campaign focused on CapeNature’s different Garden Route locations, including the iconic Robberg and Keurbooms Nature Reserves. These sun-kissed days in nature highlight some reasons why Plettenberg Bay is an ideal destination for outdoor-loving families. Exploring Robberg Nature Reserve and cruising the Keurbooms River alongside the Keurbooms Nature Reserve are frequent activities for families and youngsters in the area. “As the doors of tourism slowly re-open, we have noticed an increased demand for outdoor activities and families requesting very specific information relating to hiking, water activities and our beaches. Plett is one of SA’s favourite playgrounds with year-round moderate temperatures and ample opportunity to get outside,” says Patty Butterworth, CEO, Plett Tourism. Robberg Nature Reserve is one of the most important and iconic experiences in Plettenberg Bay. Some highlight features of a visit here include spotting the rare blue duiker, the Western Cape’s smallest antelope; walking alongside one of the seven climbing-falling dunes on the Cape coastline; and viewing the highest navigational light on the South African coastline, at the Cape Seal Lighthouse. The reserve also extends 1.8 km offshore, providing protection to a range of vulnerable fish species. Visitors can expect inspiring landscapes, exciting dolphin and whale sightings in season, and to be accompanied on their walks or hikes by a variety of bird species and the occasional seal. An overnight hut is available for those who want to spend more time on this beautiful reserve. Keurbooms River Nature Reserve conserves a variety of habitats including indigenous forest, riverine gorge, coastal fynbos and estuarine littoral dune fields. This is a sanctuary for forest and river birds, and visitors can expect to see a diversity of species, including the Knysna woodpecker, fish eagle, little grebe, black-headed oriole and narina trogon.