The Cape West Coast in South Africa is unspoiled and authentic, known for its hospitable people, unpretentious way of life, fascinating cultural heritage sites and myriad activities from adventure sports to bird watching. There is a plethora of activities, attractions, and experiences that will invite you back, time and again. See and experience something with a different twist on each adventure on the Foodie and Berg Route. Foodie Route – The West Coast Way Foodie Route includes some of the most beautiful and interesting outlying towns and locations on the Cape West Coast such as Langebaan, Saldanha Bay, Jacobsbaai, Paternoster, Cape Columbine, St Helena Bay, Shelley Point, Velddrif, and Hopefield. Attractions – The Foodie Route showcases attractions including the West Coast National Park, West Coast Fossil Park, Saldanha Bay Cultural Village and Museum, and the Simply Bee Observation Centre in Hopefield. Berg Route – Bokkomlaan is named after the salted silvery fish that are strung into bunches and hung to dry. Bokkoms are the West Coast’s answer to biltong and the taste of these whole dried harders has become synonymous with the region and part of the West Coast Way self-drive Berg Route. Time stands still on a walk along Bokkomlaan, once the heart of Velddrif’s bustling fishing industry.  The Great Berg River limits future growth in the Velddrif area, ensuring that it remains restful and exclusive. Bokkomlaan is a great place to chill and watch the tide come in while sipping freshly roasted coffee. Try a bokkom platter at Ek En Djy Vissery and buy some bokkoms. Sit on a jetty with a cocktail as seagulls bob between children splashing and playing. The birdlife is among the best on the coastline – from flamingos and spoonbills to pelicans and pied kingfishers, you might be lucky to spy a black swan. Things to do – Lagoon and river cruises, sandboarding, quad-biking, kite and windsurfing, mountain biking, kayaking, horse riding, beach hopping, and many more. Where to stay – You can choose from a variety of accommodation options from West Coast Shores Guesthouse located in Jacobsbaai to serve as your base when exploring the West Coast.