Yenn Health is a local South African company that develops and formulates authentic products for your natural healthcare needs. How will it help me? – CBD has been shown in many studies to reduce anxiety, aid sleep, reduce inflammation and enhance mood. What is CBD?– CBD is the abbreviation for Cannabidiol, one of the many cannabinoids found in the cannabis plant. The two main cannabinoids are THC and CBD. THC is the psychoactive compound that creates the ‘high’ sensation, whereas CBD will not. CBD is extracted from the cannabis plant and mixed with a carrier oil (usually coconut) to create CBD oil. Terpenes – Terpenes are aromatic compounds that are found in several species of plants and herbs. These are the compounds that give plants their characteristic scents. Essentially, terpenes make pine smell like pine and lavender smell like lavender. The cannabis plant has very high concentrations of over 200 different terpenes. Terpenes bind to our brain’s receptors when we consume them. This produces a physiological response that can influence the production of different neurotransmitters like dopamine and serotonin. In other words, terpenes can have a positive impact on our physical, mental, and emotional health. Entourage effect – The Entourage Effect occurs when all the chemicals in cannabis work synergistically to create enhanced physical effects. Terpenes present in CBD oil help the body in three important ways.
They improve our ability to absorb beneficial chemicals through the blood-brain barrier, overcome bacterial defence mechanisms, and increase the absorption and effectiveness of cannabinoids. This means that a CBD product with added terpenes is far more effective than a product that only contains CBD. Is it legal – CBD is legal in South Africa, whereas THC may not be sold. CBD is also not regarded as a prohibited substance for athletes and sports people.
Yenn has developed a range of CBD oils with the optimal combination of terpenes for specific ailments.  CBD (600mg) CALM drops – CBD oil combined with a world-leading pure terpene combination specifically formulated to reduce anxiety and aid sleep.
CBD (600mg) RELIEF drops – CBD oil combined with a patented world-leading pure terpene combination specifically formulated to reduce inflammation and relieve pain.
CBD (600mg) UPLIFT drops – CBD oil combined with a world-leading pure terpene combination specifically formulated to improve mood, assist with depression and stimulate mental focus.
CBD (600mg) CLASSIC drops – The original CBD oil to assist with anxiety, aid sleep and reduce inflammation. No terpenes added. Natural Pain Relief Creams Muscle and joint pain is a common problem for many people, especially for the elderly. Almost all creams currently available are formulated with many undesirables such as parabens, petroleum derived synthetics, formaldehydes and PEGs.(Polyethylene glycol). Yenn has developed an effective range of Natural creams without these additives. Cayenne Cream – with capsicum extract, baobab, frankincense, rosemary, myrrh, ginger, cedarwood and clove.
The warming effects of capsicum stimulate the flow of blood to the affected area, resulting in a decrease in inflammation. Ideal for arthritis or for use before exercise. Magnesium Cream – 20% magnesium with sweet almond oil, peppermint and camphor. Ideal for recovery after sport, heavy/restless legs and cramps.  CBD (400mg) Cream – CBD combined with baobab, wintergreen, rosemary and clove. Used for arthritis and pain relief. Menthol Cream – 3.5% menthol extracted from the peppermint plant, combined with wintergreen, eucalyptus, camphor, and clove. Cooling sensation for immediate relief from muscle pain. Magnesium The health benefits of magnesium include- improved energy levels, improved exercise performance, reduced anxiety/stress, improved quality of sleep, a decrease in inflammation in the body. Magnesium is required in over 300 processes in the body and is often not available in optimal quantities. The most effective way to ensure you have sufficient magnesium is to eat a diet that is high in nuts, seeds, legumes and leafy green vegetables. Unfortunately, this will often not be enough. Magnesium supplementation may be necessary. Magnesium is generally difficult for the body to absorb. The best form of magnesium supplement is an Amino Acid Chelate, which is well absorbed and tolerated by the body. Magnesium is also absorbed transdermally with the use of a cream or a magnesium oil. Yenn has a range of magnesium cream, magnesium oil and capsules. Yenn products are available at: Organic Living (Constantia), The Circle Pharmacy (Somerset West), Klein Joostenberg (Muldesrvlei), Ride In Café (Stellenbosch), Bicycle Garage (Paarl), The Village Hub (Scarborough), Adventure Cycles (Wellington), Dot Health Coach (Val de Vie), and Eternity (Wellington). Shop online www.yenn.co.za Email us: info@yenn.co.za Instagram: @yennhealth or www.facebook.com/yennhealth