Find La Paris Estate in the Cape Winelands half way between Franschhoek and Paarl on the R301. Gratious Living and Pure indulgence. It’s all in the detail Whether you’re looking for a relaxing getaway or an exquisite natural setting for a special proposal or celebration, we are here for you. Let us take care of everything so that you can simply enjoy the experience. Our Hotel Manager, Colette Stoffberg, Duty Manager, Grant Anthony and staff are excited to welcome you to your home from home. All you need to do is check-in, kick back and relax in the lap of luxury while savouring the moment. Chill in the Pool or trek up to the dam to do some paddling surrounded by mountains. If you’re up for some exercise, slip on a pair of Tennis shoes and take your best shot. For the more laid back, unwind in our beautiful gardens with a glass of wine and maybe play some lawn games or have a Picnic. La Paris has its own on-site Bakery with freshly baked artisanal breads, sweet treats and a Deli with scrumptious munchies.
To round off the day, why not enjoy an in-room massage or beauty treatment followed by dinner in the Bistro and a nightcap in the Manor House. Then …Sweet dreams …. We are happy to announce the opening of our Boardroom with online meeting Conferencing. Now also on offer: Team Building Packages on site as well as transfers to various activities in the area such as Pearl Valley Golf Club (Under the Top 5 Golf Courses in SA, right on our doorstep), Horse Riding, Quad Biking, Wine Tasting and much more including arranging a Hot air Balloon Ride. The daily aromas from our on-site bakery of freshly baked artisanal bread, cakes and sweet treats envelop you in a giant hug. Yummy goodies from the Deli include items made by our Bistro Kitchen like the mouth-watering Smoked Baba Ghanoush, Basil Pesto, Roasted Garlic Hummus and so much more. Think home-made goods developed by our Chefs, as well as locally sourced items.  Two recent exciting developments are the addition of the Bakery seating areas with its own casual dining menu and treats from the table. Choose from a small intimate inside area with folding glass doors leading onto the deck, or enjoy its fireplace on chilly days. Alternatively, take a seat in the serene Herb and Vegetable Garden with views to write home about and cool down under the misting system. A must do – High Tea – it’s pure indulgence. We are proud to welcome our new Pastry Chef, Kyle Haytread onboard, who together with our baker, Shepherd Jiye and the rest of the Bakery team promise more exciting things to come. Open 7 days a week from 8am to 5pm.  Glamorous, over the top big as well as intimate bespoke weddings, celebrations and events are synonymous with La Paris Estate, however our Events Team still gets so excited about each new event or celebration, it’s almost tangible. We offer various luxurious Venues … think Opulence – Marble Floors, Drop dead gorgeous Chandeliers, Manicured Lawns, Ancient Trees and a feeling of History. Add to that various exquisite outdoor spaces available on this remarkable Estate surrounded by the natural beauty of the mountains, It’s simply magical.
Event Manager, Lauren Ratcliffe and Event Co-ordinator Neechia Altichiero, who personify Event Planning with passion at the core, attention to detail and years of experience in their field, complete the package. We offer Venue Management, full or partial and on the day co-ordination, at times liaising with selective co-ordinators, Full Bar service and Catering by our Bistro (bringing Restaurant food to Banqueting). Our suppliers and project partners are people we’ve worked with for years that we trust and rely on. Our Team thrives on pressure, at the same time having a can-do attitude, so you can rest assured when they say; “We got you” they mean exactly that. No wedding is too big or too small for this formidable duo and their team. They view each event as unique and whether it’s a casual laid back affair or black tie event – it’s what makes them get up in the morning. Give them your brief, then sit back and enjoy the experience. La Paris Estate is not only the ideal setting for celebrations and the perfect choice for destination weddings, it also presents opportunities for Conferences/Expos and various types of tailor made events. Our Restaurant has become something special. Known for Refined Dining, The Bistro Team continues to surprise with new exciting dishes which soon become additions to the list of Guest favourites, all while under the leadership of Executive Chef, Jason Lashmar. Together, with his Kitchen Team, he believes in taking you on a Food Adventure while at the same time sticking to the principle of Simple Food done well. All food is made from scratch, sourced sustainably and treated with respect, with the continued goal to minimise wastage. Breakfast and Lunch are a decadent, casual affair where you can just chill and be served by our friendly, professional FOH team lead by Restaurant Manager, Axrial Malgas. The whole team is known for going the extra mile to make it a memorable experience. The Restaurant setting itself is Trendy and Upmarket, while the outdoor areas are expansive and set under the magnificent Ancient Oaks and Poplars in our beautiful garden. Try Chef’s Specialities like Savoury Waffles, Shakshuka and French Toast for Breakfast (perfect with a glass of bubbles on the side) or one of the ample health options (fluffy egg white Omelettes being one) and freshly made juice or smoothies. For Lunch, enjoy a broad selection including mouth-watering Curries (the Lamb Curry being my favourite) to gorgeous fresh Poke Bowls, Tataki or Ceviche Tacos with many more options to choose from. Why not start with a refreshing cocktail or mocktail, and of course there’s always wine … To end, a yummy dessert, or one of our delicious sweet treats always on offer.
Dinner is on another level, expect white tablecloths, beautiful table settings, fresh flowers, with glowing fireplaces (for when it’s chilly) and to be wowed by exciting beautifully plated Dishes. Still included are some of the must have favourites, but with added new Chef Specialities for your enjoyment. To end off the evening, enjoy an exquisite dessert.
We don’t do Fine Dining, but definitely believe in good food served beautifully. The whole experience promises to be a memorable evening.
This bubbly, passionate team can’t wait to welcome you so that you can sit back and enjoy! Breakfast and Lunch Wednesday to Sunday and Dinner Wednesday to Friday evenings. * Restaurant: La Paris Bistro * Bakery * Deli * Picnics * Luxury Boutique Hotel * Opulent Wedding Venues * Wedding Planning/Co-ordination * Outdoor Events spaces set in beautiful surroundings with manicured lawns and Gardens * Conferences * Expos * Team Building For more information contact 021 867 0171 or visit www.laparis.co.za