As a young qualified hydraulic fitter Johan Swanepoel started JJE Auto Mechanical (JJE) Repairs from his home. When the business was well established, he decided to move to the Kraaifontein Industrial Park – a successful business he managed for almost 23 years. Back in 1997, a married man and father, Johan was retrenched while working on a Free State mine. He took a step back, having spent his entire life in the Free State, and considered his options before finally deciding to leave the Mining Industry for good. He made a bold decision and decided to move to Cape Town and start a new life and start his own business in Auto Mechanical repairs. In that same year he embarked on what would become the greatest joy of his life. Johan meticulously planned this new venture of building his new Auto Mechanical Repairs company. He bought a secondhand Mitsubishi 250 bakkie with its engine removed and lying on the back of the bakkie. He repaired and reassembled the engine and it became his first transport vehicle – still being utilized in the company. From the very outset, Johan trained his staff to produce the highest quality of workmanship, while he himself set time aside to invest quality time with each and every client ensuring continued business. During this time he also trained his son Anthony to take over the business one day. Anthony is reaping the benefits of the yesteryear investment which his father laid down in building client relationships. After all these years JJE is still doing business with almost all the clients from the day his father started the business. Johan was also faced with resolving faulty Hydraulic systems installed on the first ever sliding tipper built for Trip Trans in Johannesburg. They had to step in and resolve the problems in Cape Town. They repaired and replaced the faulty parts where required as it was too costly to do a return trip to Johannesburg with these trucks – a job they executed with pride. Twenty-three years later Tip Trans is still a client of JJE Auto Mechanical Repairs.
Anthony recalls a time when they received an order to fit complete hydraulic pumps systems with diesel tanks to ten large trucks within four days. The entire staff took three days, working throughout the night and completed the work to the satisfaction of their client within the set time. Johan Swanepoel’s great satisfaction experiencing the happiness of his clients lasted 23 years before he passed away on Sunday, 24 May 2020. The next morning the mantle of responsibility befell Anthony, and he took up the reigns and followed in his father’s footsteps. Anthony says, “Today I am in the fortunate position of building on the foundation laid down by my father and I can only strive to provide service in the same manner as my father so successfully provided. I know his clients, and I believe I am able to uphold the presence of service par excellence.” “I can only follow in the footsteps of my father and conduct my business in the same way as he conducted the business through working with our well-trained staff,” Anthony concludes. For more information visit 40 Eagle Street, Okavango Park, Brackenfell Tel: 021 981 1975 | 083 229 0880