The Distance For Difference’s (D4D) journey started on 26 December 2004 and since 2013, when the first THE500 was held, it quickly became a very special event. Along with the events of 2015, 2017 and 2019, more than R2.2 Million was raised for various children’s charities. The following 10 Children’s Charities will benefit from the funds raised via the 2021 THE500: Patch Helderberg, Esther van Zyl Foster Home, Heartlands Baby Sanctuary, Tzadokah Foster Home, Hagar’s Choice, Sylvia’s House Foster Home, Little Angels, Heaven’s Gate Ministries Foster Home, Gabriella Centre, and Kingdom Kids Day Care.
Due to the devastating effect of Covid-19 on the economy, many businesses have closed down or will not be able to sponsor the event like they had in the past. With the closure of the 5-star The NH Lord Charles Hotel, where the previous four events were hosted, the event will be moving to a new venue. “No, it is not 5-star, and we will not experience all the comfort and many ‘extra’s’ we had at the hotel, but the team at Stellenbosch Flying Club has the same ‘5-star hearts’ we’ve experienced over the years at the hotel! We want to thank Anton Theart and his team for sponsoring the venue and their willingness to give THE500 a new home!” – Stéphan Pieterse, Founder. “Please know this: It is people like you that make the difference. You are about to enter a ‘giving-back-event’. THE500 is in the first place not about the individual, the prestige of completing a challenge, personal gain, a medal, or admiration from others, but about giving of yourself, the money you have been blessed with or simply your support.” “It is about the collective effort of a community that will result in a lasting impact on the lives of many vulnerable children in desperate need of loving care, parental guidance, a good education, physical protection or simply one nourishing meal a day,” Pieterse concluded. Event: THE500 | 24hr Cycling and Spinning Challenge | 2021 Date: 30-31 October Venue: Stellenbosch Flying Club 