The World Wide Fund for Nature, WWF, has awarded Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate the top award for excellence. It is for ‘exceptional commitment to the collective conservation of threatened habitat in South Africa’s Succulent Karoo and the Cape Floral Kingdom as well as for outstanding dedication to environmentally responsible farming practices’. In May, Benguela Cove won gold in the international TITAN Property Awards for residential and hospitality development – for architectural design, interior design, property development, real estate, and marketing. Penny Streeter OBE, owner of Benguela Estate says: “We are delighted with these accolades, they recognise all the hard work put in by the estate team in creating an award-winning vineyard, a top eco-tourism destination and highly desirable homes – all in harmony with this beautiful lagoon location in the protected Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve. We work together with the WWF to meet key objectives for environmental protection in all our practices.” The World Wide Fund for Nature – The WWF offers expert advice as part of its world-leading biodiversity and water management programme to committed wine-growers in South Africa, recognising in the awards scheme those that farm in harmony with nature. The country’s wine industry grew quickly in the early 2000s and its footprint expanded to include endangered habitats that have needed effective conservation action. The result was that the conservation sector and the wine industry entered into a unique partnership to preserve habitats and local flora and fauna. Wine farmers are the custodians of extensive areas of land in South Africa. Increasingly it falls upon them to take a lead in conservation, to work the land in harmony with nature and ensure that sensitive areas are protected. With a changing climate and ever-growing costs for inputs, collaboration is needed across farms to address common risks and opportunities such as cleaning up water sources and preventing wildfires. WWF works with South African wine industry environmental leaders, known as the Conservation Champions – which now include the Streeter family and Benguela Cove – through a voluntary model of membership. The landowners engage in biodiversity-friendly and renewable farming, conserve natural habitats and continuously improve water and energy efficiency. By developing detailed environmental management plans, setting tangible goals, and assisting farmers to address the most pressing environmental risks, WWF can support these farms in their environmental efforts. Effective environmental protection needs the active support of members of the public too, says Penny Streeter: “All of us have a role to play. In the wines and other produce each of us choose to buy and the places that we visit for recreation, for example, these small decisions that we make each day as consumers can, collectively, make a huge difference to preserving the natural treasures of South Africa. By supporting those organisations committed to the environment, we can protect and sustain our landscape and natural assets for future generations.” “Benguela Cove is a wildlife residential estate where people can actively support a leading environmental project, living in harmony with nature and enjoying the benefits of a wonderful lifestyle.” Benguela Cove is a luxury, low density, secure development at Hermanus, near Cape Town. It consists of 124 plots, on the banks of the Botriver Lagoon, with a variety of amenities, and spectacular views of the lagoon, the ocean and mountains beyond. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za