Italian passion for fine wine and conservation are inseparable elements of Slent, historic mountainside farm, home of Ayama wines, where visitors will meet Michela and Attilio Dalpiaz, welcoming you to this jewel in the Voor Paardeberg, where grapes of exceptional quality are grown and some great wine has been made by unsung heroes for decades. More than 17 years ago, we left our northern Italian home to have a holiday in South Africa with friends. Like many others we fell in love with South Africa, the people, the weather and the wine. We returned to the Cape as prospective landowners, taking our friends on as financial partners, and bought a beautiful Voor Paardeberg farm boasting vines, orchards of plums and pears, to which we have added olive groves. We made light of the difficulties of learning about South African soils, grape cultivars, local cultures and more, while renovating the old farmstead and unearthing unexpected joys such Leopards passing it by, as do caracal and civet cats and small antelopes, while porcupines leave their tell-tale quills alongside tracks.  We remain friends with the local baboon troop even as the latter devises strategies for a share of Shiraz grapes and veggies. Luckily, they haven’t discovered the art of cooking as yet, leaving the artichokes and the asparagus well in peace and intact for the comfort of many lovers of these Italian specialties’ in the country. Since 2004, Slent has been loved and cherished becoming a leisurely trip not far off the beaten track, under the well-known name of Ayama- an isiXhosa word which well defines the soul of this now big family, under its translation “Someone to lean on”. Since 2018, we opened our doors to our “Ayamafanatics”, who come from all over the world to taste our wines and visit us, either occasionally or attending our uniquely themed events, which proudly never presents alliteration of any courses or experiences. Our most glamorous and loved event, the “Ayama Artichoke Festival” annually teaches fanatics contrasting ways to serve up delectable artichoke dishes in serving different dishes each year. Your trip to Ayama will lead you finding new tastes, new flavours, and new experiences, no matter if you are coming for a few hours or staying for a few days at the “Rock House cottage”. What started as a home for managers who helped the previous owners to plant most of the vineyards which still bear wonderful Chenin Blancs, is now the warm self-catering Ayama guest house, framed by unforgettable views and farming lifestyle.  We dreamed about Slent becoming Proudly South African and Truly Italian as we saw it on the first day, overwhelmed by an unforgettable love at first sight, and the deep feeling in our soul of being home. The journey towards learning how to respectfully produce Chenin Blanc and Pinotage with character and thanking South Africa for gifting us with many blessings, led us to becoming parents of the first Vermentino planted and produced in South Africa, an Italian white variety finding growth and huge potential in Sardinian alike soils and climates. We will soon be celebrating the 5th bottled vintage of Vermentino, 2020, which gives us goosebumps as we recall great memories thinking back to the 10 year long period, waiting between shipping the first 6 buds allowed to be quarantined in South Africa from Italy, as well as its’ first harvest. We wish sometimes we could’ve shared these historical step with the Italian prisoners who built the concrete wine tanks, which we can still draw in our minds, and who’s frames are still visible in our wine tasting room today, or with Sailor Malan, a South African hero who lived his happy childhood at Slent well celebrated in his biography. Written words are just panoramic pictures which capture proud and smiling eyes of shy and strong characters. Hardworking and as much as they can promptly share a dance with men and women making of Ayama a home away from home, and having an outsider longing to pay a visit. After holding our breath and life for more than a year, instigating wonder and worry at the sound of words lockdown, virus, masks and curfew among many others, we all thought it is time to courageously start claiming back the joy of welcoming back to Ayama well known friends as adventurous new faces, for a series of unique food and wine cultural Ayama events, or better, experiences.  They are all designed to share our passion and love for agriculture and Slent’s glorious past and untouched set up, which led us to new ways of protecting and preserving our old vineyards, planting new and uncommon vines and olive varieties. Combining Italian and South African knowledge for growing and spicing nothing alike flavours and tastes, all strictly substantiable, seasonal and diverse. From May 16, to end of September, the winter weekends in the Voor Paardeberg will be a journey to Italy, with stop-overs in Asia and detouring back to South Africa tasting Chenin Blanc, Pinotage, Grenaches, Carignan, Vermentino, Muscat, Merlot, Italian unusual wines, discovering new ways of cooking, tasting surpassing flavours framed by collective and safe enjoyment. All our events can be booked on our website: www.ayamateca.com and we are looking forward to being telling you personally our story and our dreams.