Launched in August last year, We Do, Weddings is the perfect event planner for couples looking for an affordable, intimate, stylish and low-stress wedding or celebratory function. “The success of a marriage is not directly linked to the wedding’s price tag and fun on the day is not related to the opulence,” says Anna Granig, founder and owner of We Do, Weddings, an innovative business specialising in intimate, creative weddings and which has now extended its offering to bespoke functions. Integral to the business (other than Anna, of course!) is Polly, a custom-made Instagram-worthy vintage teardrop camper and the country’s only mobile wedding chapel. Although born out of the Covid pandemic, the seed for We Do, Weddings was subconsciously planted a few years ago at Anna’s own wedding. When her relatively big wedding in the making was delayed indefinitely due to her fiancé’s illness, it gave the couple the opportunity to rethink how to tie the knot. They were not up for a big wedding anymore, but didn’t want to delay formalising their commitment to each other. At the time, small weddings were pretty much unheard of, but they literally had 10 days to put it together. So they went “big on flowers and small on numbers”, inviting the four couples who were instrumental in them meeting, their own children and close family. “All of the people who attended our wedding loved it and raised the question why more people don’t do smaller weddings.” A tiny wedding encourages you to focus on the commitment you are making to each other and the intimacy of that experience, believes Anna. This is for people who want to have a fun and original day, but without the stress and financial pressure. As the business has gained traction, so Anna has had requests for events other than weddings. From bachelorette parties to baby showers, product launches to small birthday celebrations, her services can be tailormade for most small and intimate affairs. A lot of the attention can be attributed to Polly, the colourful star of the events, who has quickly amassed a following of her own. She can serve as a bar, photo backdrop or ceremony altar.