During Tourism Month in September, Wesgro has launched a series of exquisitely re-imagined regional tourism videos showcasing Cape Town and the Western Cape in a way that is raw, authentic, and diverse – delivering on the destination’s promise of ‘wide open spaces’ – perfectly suited for consumer mindsets in a new phase of travel. Challenging viewers to “Find your place, find yourself, get in a good space”, GPS coordinates of exact locations are incorporated throughout the video series, with no place names mentioned, encouraging travellers to get out and discover the regions for themselves. The series has been six months in the making as the Discover Western Cape crew journeyed through the province, capturing ‘re-imagined’ scenes that not only show natural beauty but the diversity of the six regions and the people at the heart of the many places depicted – the very lifeblood of the tourism industry. “Video is a powerful, high-engagement storytelling tool,” says Wesgro’s Head of Marketing and Communications, Jean Scheltema. “GPS coordinates as a visual cue challenge viewers to be curious enough to seek out places of immense natural beauty and transformative experiences in the province. The art direction taps into our unique and undeniable spirit and we’re hoping the series will move people to travel to all corners of the Western Cape.” Accompanying the videos is a host of newly captured images, digital assets, editorial content, itineraries, and white label logos, allowing regional tour operators to tap into a host of fresh content to sell and package the province for the upcoming festive season. The launch of the microsite is well-timed for pre-festive season marketing efforts. “Travellers are seeking wide open spaces and diverse, natural landscapes which the Western Cape has an abundance for both domestic and international tourists. There is an incredible diversity in the attractions and experiences for those exploring province and these videos do an excellent job of showcasing our destination offer at a time when the industry needs it most.” “Recovery will remain dependent on the vaccine rollout, the easing of travel restrictions, and the reopening of the economy. We continue to work hard to support the industry by ensuring that Cape Town and the Western Cape remains front-of-mind for travellers,” said Western Cape Minister of Finance and Economic Opportunities, David Maynier. YouTube videos by Discover Western Cape are: Overberg, Winelands, West Coast, Garden Route and Klein Karoo, and the Karoo.