It is time to look forward and work with renewed vigour to bring back as much of what was lost as we can. As such, the City, together with our official Destination Marketing Organisation, Cape Town Tourism (CTT), is focusing on boosting domestic tourism by highlighting the many pocket-friendly experiences the Mother City has to offer. For visitors and locals who aren’t sure where to start, CTT has compiled a handy list of 50 things to do for under R50 while the Pocket-friendly Challenge highlights cost-effective activities in communities across Cape Town. You can get out-and-about and explore our incredible city on a free walking tour in Cape Town’s central business district or enjoy a picnic in Green Point Urban Park, indulge in Cape Town’s best milkshake and hotdog at Wembley Roadhouse in Athlone, or sip on some craft beers and gin in Hout Bay. “In this way, we are helping to diversify our tourism landscape by promoting a wider array of products and attractions throughout the city. This in turn breaks the perception that tourism is centred around certain parts of Cape Town and is perhaps too expensive.”
Additionally, CTT is further boosting smaller hospitality businesses with the rollout of its Neighbourhood Experience Development training manual. Drafted together with experts at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, this manual is meticulous in detail and a tangible example of what we are doing to create inclusive growth. The manual boasts detailed modules and practical activities on packaging a business offering for tourists, conducting market research, cultural understanding, and much more. There are even guides on how to do an income statement and making use of booking and marketing platforms. These guides will be an essential tool for industry businesses, particularly as they prepare to receive summer holiday visitors. “We’re pulling out all the stops to save our tourism sector and make it even stronger than before. Tourism is a driver of job growth and economic prosperity, accounting for one in 10 jobs worldwide and delivering one in five of all new jobs created in 2017, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. With our Tourism Bounce Back Strategy aimed at stimulating supply and demand from specific source markets, we are confident that we will see growth in our numbers again. Let’s show that we’re ready for them, Cape Town!” For more information visit www.capetown.travel