Cape Town Air Access (CTAA) is an award-winning initiative housed within Wesgro that focuses on improving air connectivity through strategic route development and support. These initiatives have been especially important following the COVID-19 pandemic and the CTAA team is pleased to announce the return of several airlines and routes. Air France will resume their Paris CDG to Cape Town route as of the 31st of October 2021. The airline will run 3 flights a week operated on a Boeing 787-9. Lufthansa will be adding additional frequencies on the Frankfurt route and Munich flights will return from 31 October. Both routes will be operated 5 times per week. Edelweiss from Switzerland will introduce flights from Zurich to Cape Town again as of 6 October 2021 and has announced to increase their flight frequencies during the season.
The United Airlines New York (Newark) to Cape Town flight that was firstly introduced in December 2019 will resume their operation to Cape Town from 1 December 2021 with 3 flights per week. Most African carriers have already resumed operations to CPT like Ethiopian Airways, Kenya Airways, and Rwandair. These airlines will also increase their frequencies from October to destinations like Addis Ababa, Nairobi, Victoria Falls, Livingstone, Harare, and Kigali.
KLM, Turkish Airlines, Emirates, and Qatar will continue to operate their year-round schedules. British Airways expects to ramp up its services to SA to include double daily flights between the UK and Cape Town by mid-December following SA’s removal from the UK’s much criticised Covid-19 “red list”. On the domestic front, all 13 destinations are back in the schedule for Cape Town International Airport including Airlink flights to the Kruger Park (Nelspruit, Hoedspruit, and Skukuza) which offers travellers greater access to northern regions of the country. With the significant impact of COVID-19 on the airline industry, the return of several notable flights shows promise for the rejuvenation of the airline industry as well as various other industries which rely on the influx of passengers.