Spring is the season of renewal and rejuvenation and an ideal time to set up your home for summer. An added benefit is some simple upgrades could improve the value of your property. “If you’re borrowing money to make some improvements, consider the smaller, cosmetic changes that will make your home more appealing,” says Shafeeqah Isaacs, head of financial education at personal loan specialists, DirectAxis. You’re going to spend more time outdoors in summer, so the garden is a good place to start. Remove sticks, piles of leaves, or other debris that may have accumulated during winter. Trim any trees or bushes that are looking scruffy. Clear walkways and remove any weeds that may be growing between tiles. A few strategically placed plants can hide a multitude of sins. Use woodchips to cover sparse borders and position shrubs and flowers to enliven views from the windows. Freshen up your stoep furniture by repainting it, or if it’s wood, sanding, and re-sealing. If the cushions are looking tired, consider reupholstering them or buying new ones. Consider whether your house needs a new coat of paint. A freshly painted exterior, neat garden, and clean windows all point to a house that is cared for. Most people consider the kitchen the heart of the home. Simple upgrades such as replacing old door handles, installing modern light fittings, refacing or fitting new cupboard doors, installing new taps, or adding a Perspex or stainless-steel splashback can transform a kitchen. Replacing taps and upgrading the lighting can make a difference. You may consider upgrading old, chipped, or damaged baths and sinks, re-grouting tiles, and replacing old-fashioned built-in cupboards and other fixtures, with modern free-standing units. A fresh coat of paint can go a long way towards improving a room and is a lot cheaper than remodeling or breaking down walls. The same applies to floors and other surfaces. Repaint or refresh rather than replace. Sanding and resealing or polishing wooden floors and getting carpets professionally cleaned can all make a difference at a fraction of the cost. “When it comes to making your house more liveable and adding to its potential value, more often than not, less is more.”