There are many good reasons for getting into the habit of not tossing your organic waste into the trash. Organic waste makes up a considerable proportion of the total waste stream that ends up in the landfill (typically in the vicinity of 20-40%). This is unfortunate since, apart from needlessly taking up dwindling landfill space, these materials can easily be diverted and turned into rich organic fertilizer. Food waste composting is a great way to become more sustainable in your everyday life. Not only does it reduce the waste in landfills, reduce carbon dioxide and methane emissions, and putrescent leachates in landfills, but it also reuses organic material otherwise wasted. Another good reason to do so is the fact that the Western Cape recently just instituted new bylaws expecting businesses and residents to reduce their organic waste to landfill by 50% in 2022 & 100% by 2027. With the help of Green Vizion Bokashi and Bokashi Food Waste Recycler buckets, you can use the power of Efficient Microorganisms (EM) to ferment food waste into nutrient-rich composting material that can improve soil health and increase plant growth, strength, and vitality in your garden. When you focus on your soil’s health, you will also add to your sustainability by reducing the use of chemical inputs in the garden while producing more nutrient-rich foods for your healthy lifestyle. EM also has a variety of beneficial uses in agriculture, aquaculture, wastewater treatment, composting, livestock, and human health. EM has the potential to contribute significantly to the general improvement of our health and the health of our environment. Some of the benefits of using Green Vizion Bokashi to recycle Your Food Waste include: Environmentally friendly, Safe for humans, animals, and plants, It can be done on a small or large scale, Recycle all raw and cooked food including bones, no nasty smells, can be kept in your kitchen, Reduce pathogens and improve kitchen & waste storage area hygiene, Produces a material that can be used as a slow-release fertilizer in your garden, Provides nutrient-rich plant-food for your bonsais, flowers, and other potted plants, Reduces fly activity and occurrence of maggots in your rubbish bin, Reduce landfill emissions which contribute to climate change and much more. For more information contact 082 226 3134 
or visit www.facebook.com/GreenVizionBokashi